title: "Principles, Process, and Pleasure of Writing - Class Notes"
date: 2023-01-02T08:38:01-08:00
author: Graham L. Brown
draft: true
---

# Notes

## Class 1

### Self-Introduction

I write software for a living, and so unlike Debbie, I am quite logical and squential. I am reaching a point in my career where my position gives me to the opportunity to inform, influence, and assist my peers.

Generally, I've always enjoyed writing, but I've never been that great at writing fiction. Where I have started to find my groove is in more technical writing and essay writing.

Looking to learn to write more effectively and empathetically so that I can better communicate to my peers on topics which I am experienced and educated.
 - Informing our customer base on the complicated technical background of the product my team owns
 - Introducing our team to a new Development process
 - A 'how-to' guide on Writing Effective Self-Review content
 - Deep technical dives and explainers on technical topics

 Topics I'd like to learn:
  - Formalise my writing process
  - Defining what 'effective' writing means
  - Balancing between being verbose and concise


 A note: The more we write, the better we get!


 ### Writing Life - Anchor Words

 Who do you write for? - Myself primarily, peers, friends, folks I mentor. I'd love to write for the wider world, but that doesn't seem real
 Where do you do your writing? - In familiar but different places
 When do you write? - Just in time, as needed
 How do you write/what tools do you use? - Digital tools, a minimal text editor (Nvim)
 What do you write? - Technical, process, and personal explainers and meditations
 Why do you write? - To clarify thoughts in my own head, to inform, to influence, and most of all, to assist.
 How do you begin? How do you revise? How do you finish? - Begin? Bullet points. Revise? Reading out loud. Finish? When it is above the bar I set and been peer-reviewed at least once.
 What advice would you give someone about writing? - Cut out words that are not needed - aim for clarity over beautiful text

 At this time, on this day, and this time, how do you describe your writing process? - Haphazard yet logical. I rarely start with a structure, but one arises as I drill deep into my thoughts for clarity. I strive to find the natrual organistation in my mind and bring that onto the page so that someone may effectively understand, digest, and appreciate what I am working to share. 

 Outline your writing practice:
    The practice starts when I identify a need where those I care about may benefit from my knowledge and experience. Through conversation and internal interrogation, I find my thoughts and their foundations, and put them on the page with a structure that reveals itself. The practice ends when each piece is complete, and is resurrected when the next need arises. 

Can you describe your writing philosophy? What is it about writing? Why does it animate you? Why do you feel you have something to say? What motivates you?
 - I write to learn. To help others learn what I've worked to find out. It is thrilling to see my thoughts reveal themselves on the page with their natural organistation and clear thoughts. While I do not define myself as an expert, I believe I have enough of value to make sharing worthwhile. Beyond learning and helping, bluntly being a better communicator that can inform, influence, and assist others across boundaries will enable me to unlock the next step in my career progression. 

# Class 1

### Protrait of the artist


 I write to learn. I write to help others learn what I've worked to find out. I write to clarify thoughts in my own head, to inform, to influence, and most of all, to assist.
 
 It is thrilling to see my thoughts reveal themselves on the page with their natural organistation and clarity of purpose. While I do not define myself as an expert, I believe I have enough of value to make sharing worthwhile. Beyond learning and helping, bluntly being a better communicator that can inform, influence, and assist others across boundaries will enable me to unlock the next step in my career progression.  My writing practice starts when I identify a need where those I care about may benefit from my knowledge and experience. Through conversation and internal interrogation, I find my thoughts and their foundations, and put them on the page with a structure that reveals itself. The practice ends when each piece is complete, and is resurrected when the next need arises. 

How do I begin? Through bullet points. How do I reviese? Through reading out loud. How do I finish? When my work is barely over the bar I set, and been peer-reviewed at least once. Bullet points enable me to dive to the heart of the matter, reading out loud breaks me away from my innner monologue, and peer-review freezes my imposter syndrome out in the cold. I strive for clarity in my writing, to the point I would be thoroughly satisfied with a series of bullet points if they were crystal clear and completely encapsulated my throught. In that vein, while reviewing I aim to cut our words that are not needed; I aim for clarity and brevity over beautiful text. Sparse writing enables interesting words to walk to the forefront.

Defining an artisitc self-portait is an uncomfortable exercise, as I do not see myself as an artist; it feels uncomfortable as it gives credit where none is yet due, and renown where none has yet been found. I write, I create, I conjure into being, but the label does not yet feel earned. Yet.

## Class 2

### Re-writing for another audience: 

Who is the audience of ^^? My super-ego.

Take the portrait, translate it as an author bio as a national literary magazine. 250 max

Graham is a writer who creates in order to clarify, to inform, to influence, and most of all, to assist himself and others. On topics he has knowledge and experience to share, he writes short to medium length essays, technical deep-dives, and how-to guides. Through conversation and internal interrogation, he finds his thoughts and their foundations, he moves them on to the page with an intuitive structure. Graham strives for clarity in his writing, to the point that he would be thoroughly satisified with a series of bullet points if they were crystal clear and fully encapsulated the ideas at hand. His sparse writing style enables interesting word choice to shine, while still delivering clarity and brevity.



-- formal professional writing. Communication, not entertainment is the goal. Play does not exist.

### Profiling

Fear re audience: That no one cares. To put something out into the ether that I slaved over and think is excellent, but no one cares
Who is your Reader: Younger version of myself that needs a bit of help and support. I write that which I wish I could have read once upon a time.
Can you characterise your ideal reader? Ditto ^^. Younger me looking to solve problems older me has once encountered.
As the writer, what kinds of choices would you make to meet their needs and expectations? Assuming little to no prior knowledge. Explaining from nearly first principles, to provide a foundation upon which to build. The building can rise quickly, but the path upwards must be clear.


Once upon a time, I needed help and advice. Lacking any sense of wisdom, I turned to Charles Bukowski, an utter rogue. While he was the worst devil of almost every vice, his insights were true and clear and the perfect place to start.